\chapter{Introduction}
The amount of data available today is staggering. With advanced technologies,
data are constantly been created and archived. Understand large quantities of data is
a difficult challenge in terms of sheer volume and the time effort needed to
sift through the data to find salient information. Information Visualization
(InfoVis), is a field that deals with this data overload by using visual
representations of data to amplify human cognition \cite{Card1999}. While there
are many InfoVis techniques that deals with summarization and exploration of
data, particularly in text format, these techniques are not always in context
because of their abstract presentation. For example, consider the popular
technique of TagCloud, the size of the tags are semantically linked to the
frequency, but the actual context and subject matter of the text is not taken
into account. Many of these missing context are concrete ideas about objects and
space relations that do not naturally lend themselves to be mapped against
abstract representations.
 
In this work, we explore an alternative approach for summarizing text documents.
by preserving the physical entities in the text as they would appear in the real
world. We realize these entities as \threed geometries and encode additional
semantics as graphical effects. We then design interactions to navigate and
explore the \threed visualization space.
   
  
\section{Motivation}
Illustrations found in technical or medical materials are often drawn in a way
to attract the viewer's attention to specific parts of the illustration. This
stylistic approach, known as Non-Photorealistic Rendering (NPR) outshines
traditional photographic pictures in its capability to carry a specific
message to the viewers, for example, putting emphasis on sub sections of the
image such that they \emph{pop-out} to the viewers. While the idea of using 
NPR is fairly common in the field of Scientific Visualization; from the 
InfoVis side, we have seen few example usages of NPR techniques to  highlight
interesting data other than the ones dealing specifically with geo data.
 
Motivated by the lack of coverage in this area, we want to investigate how an
integrated approach of using both InfoVis and NPR graphics can enhance visual
exploration of data.

We foresee several benefits for applying NPR techniques for InfoVis based
systems, especially those systems that explores real world entities. Foremost,
NPR based illustrations preserve a sense of realism, objects under NPR are
recognizable to the viewers based on their past experiences, without the need to
interpret text or abstract visual encoding. Location based patterns are also
perceivable as they are positioned relative to their actual spatial locations.
Together, we think this can enhance the user experiences in visually exploring
the underlying data.

 
\section{Approach}
There are three main problems that should be addressed here: how to handle the
text document, how to visualize the document, and lastly how to interact with
the visualization data.

For the first problem, our system analyzes collections of descriptive text,
extracting entities that forms a \emph{part-of} relationship known as meronomy
relationship. We then construct a scoring function that tells us how frequently
entity occurs in the document, as well as their relative occurrence to each
other. 
 
In the second problem, we built a virtual representation of the document
entities. We start with a segmented \threed geometric model that is mapped onto
our meronomy ontology. We then encode the scores above onto each segments, 
using colour, transparency and other stylization styles to put emphasis on  an
entity. We render the model as precisely as possible to retain the familiarity
one would have with the entities in the real world.
 
Lastly, to enable exploration of data, we designed a set of widgets to perform
filter and drill-down operations. In particular we allow queries to be executed
visually via a widget that embodies the lens metaphor. We then mapped simple
touch gestures onto our user interface, to enable our visualization to run on a
large display in a walk-up-and-use case scenario.
 
To demonstrate our application in a realistic context, we applied our methods
to analyze a text corpus of vehicle complaint reports from the US National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).

 
\section{Contribution}
This work describes a novel approach for conducting text analytic tasks.
Combining together non-photorealistic rendering,\threed rendering and
Information Visualization techniques we created a prototype application capable
of analyzing thousands of text documents pertaining to physical entities.
 

 
\section{Organization}
The remainder of the these is organized as follows:
 
\noindent Chapter 2 discusses related researches and other inspirational works
from research literature.
 
\noindent Chapter 3 discusses the problem scenario in depth, it describes how
we came up with our goals and requirement for design.
 
\noindent Chapter 4 presents our design and justifications. This chapter is
broken down into 3 main subsections, data handling, visual design and
visualization interactions.
 
\noindent Chapter 5 discusses in our architecture and implementation. In
addition we address some non-trivial problems that we came across during the
development of this visualization.
 
\noindent Chapter 6 discusses our user study design and study results. 
 
\noindent Finally, in Chapter 7 we summarize our contributions and discuss
avenues for future work. 
  
 
  